So we just wrapped up HTTP two push.
The finished version can
be found in your project.
Your exercises, it's this one
here called push under HTTP/2.
So that's all the code that you and
I just wrote together.
And that is it for HTTP/2 We're
gonna move on now to WebSockets.
And we have two exercises in here one
we're gonna be doing raw Websockets.
And then after we're done with that,
we'll do socket IO after that.
So the next part, make sure you're
in this exercise dash raw folder and
run npm install on there, and
that's where we're going to start.
Okay, so
now that in your real time exercises,
exercise rod directory under Websockets.
Let's talked about the truest real
time that we've talked about so far.
Pulling is obviously very close to
real-time because you're just making
a lot of requests about,
to the same polling endpoint HTTP/2
is real time in one direction, right?
That we're pushing from
the server to the client, but
it's not in the reverse direction, right?
That's still like a normal post request,
let's get into like the best tool for
the job.
I've shown you the other ones because not
every server is gonna be able to handle
either HTTP/2 because some of
them just don't work with it yet.
And then pulling like even if you have
like an old system can still work, right?
You just have to make an endpoint
that can handle a lot of requests.
There's no special needs there,
we're gonna get into websockets,
which is a particular technology and
not every server can handle it right?
Like we wanted to do it originally
at reddit with websockets.
It being the real time chat
that we were doing, and
we ended up not because our server
wouldn't be able to handle it.
And eventually we actually had to spin
up a second server that just handled
websockets.
So that's why I'm showing you all of
these so you can kind of pick and
choose the best tool for the job here.
But honestly,
this is kind of the holy grail here.
The websocket is gonna be the best
cuz it does real time communication.
In both directions, right from client
to server and from server to client.
So a websocket is just a primitive It's
just like another thing that you can
create in a browser that connects
to a special kind of connection.
And honestly, at the end of the day, it
still connects over TCP IP at least to get
all that first handshake
stuff all worked out.
So, a lot of this is still
gonna feel really familiar.
And what we're gonna do
in this first part was
we're actually going to go pull
it up here in my intro real time.
We're down here in what intro websockets
If you ever took my containers
course on front of masters, we actually
go and craft containers by hand,
which one would never do right?
You would always let docker do that for
you.
We're gonna do the exact same kind
of approach here to websockets.
We're gonna go craft websockets by hand,
which is objectively terrible idea.
You should absolutely never do this and
we're going to do it
because it's super fun.
But there's so many libraries
that do this so much better and
there's honestly there's so many edge
cases to websockets that you really do
want someone to handle it for you.
But it's gonna be fun to go
put it together ourselves, so
when happened the websockets
back end portion here.
We're gonna hop over to our code and
get a little familiar with it.
So you can close all of your HTTP/2 stuff.
Say don't save.
Exercise raw here.
And we are gonna get into back end No,
actually we're not,
we're gonna get into the front end first.
So we have a file here called raw chat.
This should all look fairly familiar up
here too, it's kind of all the same stuff.
I tried to keep it as similar as possible,
the same form submit.
We're gonna write a post
new message function.
We're going to write a,kind of a get
new message function over here.
And then we have our render and
we have our template.
That's all here.So luckily,
the browser actually implements
most of the websocket stuff.
For you on the client side as in
like there's a native object called
a websocket object and
that just does everything for you.
So we really don't have to do
very much on the client and
thank God because it's you're gonna see on
the back end there's a lot to deal with.
So here you can delete this
your code goes here part.
We're say const WS equals
new websocket again,
this is just built into the browser.
It's not a library or anything like
that your browser just has it.
And you're gonna put WS which stands for
websocket protocol as in it's not HTTP,
slash slash localhost colon 8080.
And then here you got to tell what
protocol is you're gonna deal on.
We're just gonna deal on JSON,
there's nothing like magical about this.
It's not like JSON is a thing that
the websocket object recognizes.
It's just gonna pass this up to
the server, the server is gonna say, okay,
you want to speak JSON cool
I know how to speak JSON.
But like, for example, let's say you had
an endpoint that could handle either JSON
or XML, you could do this right?
And then the server would choose like
okay, I know how to speak XML but
I don't know how to speak JSON, right?
And so it'll pick the one and
then send that back to you.
Here you're just identifying, here's
everything that I know how to speak, and
then the server will pick one.
In our case, we're just going to do JSON,
but that's what that's for, okay?
So I got a websocket, this will open it,
this is a rather this will
create the object and then here you
have to say ws dot add event listener.
Open so on open events,
run this function and
we're just gonna say
console log connected and
presence that in your text
equals our green circle.
Okay, so I mean this is enough for
us to get up and going.
You can see here from the client
perspective, pretty minimal, right?
This websocket objects really good,
It's really new so it's nice to still.
Now you could try and
run this in the server, it wouldn't work.
Because we don't have anything on our back
end that's willing to handle that yet, so
we got to go do that first.
So the thing to know about
how websockets work,
what this is gonna do is it's
going to connect via TCP IP.
So via HTTP, it's going to make
a connection to your server.
To some endpoint, and
then it's gonna say, hey, endpoint,
I wanna upgrade this connection, right?
And then it's up to your server to say,
okay, what is upgrading mean?
In our case,
it's connect as a normal request.
It's gonna send an upgrade request, and
then the server is gonna say, cool.
I know how to speak websocket, and
then it's gonna connect there, right?
So that's kind of the handshake
process that goes on there.
We don't have to do any
of that on the client.
This new websocket object here just
handles that entire negotiation of trying
to get into a websocket
connection by itself.
However, node by itself does not do that,
you gotta do that yourself.
Or rather, most of the time
the library does it for you, but
we're gonna do it ourselves.